OBSDOCS-271: Highlight that some monitoring components are HA in the … (#80582)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-understanding-monitoring-stack-in-ha-clusters.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * observability/monitoring/monitoring-overview.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="understanding-monitoring-stack-in-ha-clusters_{context}"]
= Understanding the monitoring stack in high-availability clusters

By default, in multi-node clusters,
ifndef::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
both the default monitoring stack components and 
endif::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
user-defined monitoring components run in high-availability (HA) mode. This is to prevent data loss and service interruption. 

The component is replicated across two pods, each running on a separate node. This means that the monitoring stack can tolerate the loss of one pod.

Prometheus in HA mode::

> * Both replicas independently scrape the same targets.

Reviewer: it also applies to recording and alerting rules.
```suggestion
* Both replicas independently scrape the same targets and evaluate the same rules.
```

> * The replicas do not communicate with each other. Therefore, the scraped data might differ between the pods. 

Reviewer: to cover also recorded metrics from the rules.
```suggestion
* The replicas do not communicate with each other. Therefore, data might differ between the pods. 
```

Alertmanager in HA mode::

> * The two replicas share notification and silence states.
> * The replicas communicate with each other. This ensures that each notification is only sent once.

Reviewer: The Alertmanager promise is rather 'at least once' than 'exactly once'.
```suggestion
* The two replicas synchronize notification and silence states with each other. This ensures that each notification is at least sent once.
```

> * If the replicas fail to communicate, notifications are still sent, but they might be duplicated.

Reviewer: Duplication can also happen due to a buggy/slow receiving side.

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * observability/monitoring/monitoring-overview.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="understanding-monitoring-stack-in-ha-clusters_{context}"]
= Understanding the monitoring stack in high-availability clusters

By default, in multi-node clusters,
ifndef::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
both the default monitoring stack components and 
endif::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
user-defined monitoring components run in high-availability (HA) mode. This is to prevent data loss and service interruption. 

> The component is replicated across two pods, each running on a separate node. This means that the monitoring stack can tolerate the loss of one pod.

Reviewer: HA is enabled for Prometheus, Alertmanager, Thanos Querier, Thanos Ruler, Metrics server and monitoring plugin.
Exporters aren't HA right now:
* node_exporter can't really be made HA since there's 1 pod running per node.
* Other exporters like kube-state-metrics and openshift-state-metrics could be made HA but there's little incentive from our side.

As far as I can tell, the documentation focuses on stateful components, maybe it's worth mentioning?

Reviewer 2: and metrics-server is since 4.16, before 4.16, it's prometheus-adapter

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * observability/monitoring/monitoring-overview.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="understanding-monitoring-stack-in-ha-clusters_{context}"]
= Understanding the monitoring stack in high-availability clusters

By default, in multi-node clusters, the following components run in high-availability (HA) mode to prevent data loss and service interruption:

* Prometheus
* Alertmanager
* Thanos Ruler
ifndef::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
* Thanos Querier
* Metrics Server

> * monitoring-plugin

Author: Oh yes, maybe I was overthinking this. It is just that the previous one we refer while capitalised while the plugin is lowercase. But in the list it should be okay to capitalise for consistency :+1:

endif::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]

The component is replicated across two pods, each running on a separate node. This means that the monitoring stack can tolerate the loss of one pod.

Prometheus in HA mode::

* Both replicas independently scrape the same targets and evaluate the same rules.
* The replicas do not communicate with each other. Therefore, data might differ between the pods. 

Alertmanager in HA mode::

* The two replicas synchronize notification and silence states with each other. This ensures that each notification is sent at least once.
* If the replicas fail to communicate or if there is an issue on the receiving side, notifications are still sent, but they might be duplicated.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Prometheus, Alertmanager, and Thanos Ruler are stateful components. To ensure high availibility, you must configure them with persistent storage.

Reviewer 2: same as https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/80582/files#r1723203906
